#summary How To: Apps 2 SD

*<font color="#FF0000">=================================================================================</font><br>
  <font color="#FF0000">DISCLAIMER: I AM NOT RESPONSIBLE IF YOU BRICK / RUIN YOUR PHONE IN ANY WAY.</font>    <br>
  <font color="#FF0000">BASIC COMPUTER SKILLS REQUIRED</font>                                                 <br>
  <font color="#FF0000">IF YOU DO NOT KNOW WHAT ROOT IS ... YOU PROBABLY DON'T NEED IT</font>                 <br>
<font color="#FF0000">=================================================================================</font>*<br>


*PROCEED WITH CAUTION*

= Setting up your phone to work with Apps 2 SD (A2SD) =

The SDcard will need two partitions, the first Fat / Fat32 & the second Ext2
_For the Ext2 partition I wouldn't go higher than 1.5GB cuz you may run into some issues.  I was staying around the 500MB / 750MB area & it was working nice.  As all the guides I've read state not to exceed the 1.5GB Marker._

After you have both partitions setup you can install the OS, then it's just a matter of setting up the symlinks & moving the apps over / installing new ones.  
Now remember it may be best to do a wipe prior to installing this build if you aren't already on the same A2SD Build already.

Once the OS is installed first thing I would do is from a terminal on the phone / ADB Shell: 

<font color="#FF0000">su</font><br>
<font color="#FF0000">busybox df -h</font>

If you don't see a row that has _/system/sd_ on it then the process didn't pick up your SDCard.  I'd suggest you to re-install / re-format the card.

Next if you didn't perform a wipe we'll move the data over, run these cmds either via terminal / adb shell:

<font color="#FF0000">busybox cp -a /data/app /system/sd/</font><br>
<font color="#FF0000">busybox cp -a /data/dalvik-cache /system/sd/  (optional)</font><br>
<font color="#FF0000">busybox cp -a /data/data /system/sd/  (optional)</font><br>

The last two cmds here are optional (they are to move the cache for each app) & some have reported issues when copying these over so if you are having issues I would leave these on the /data partition.

1 Once your done with the above, power off your phone<br>
2 Press & hold the Home Button & press Power to boot into Recovery Mode<br>
3 Once the recovery menu opens & it's showing you JF's custom menu press *ALT+X* to enter the Recovery Terminal.<br>
4 Press enter & a prompt should come up with a "#".<br>

Next enter these cmds:

<font color="#FF0000">mount data</font><br>
<font color="#FF0000">rm -rf /data/app</font><br>
<font color="#FF0000">ln -s /system/sd/app /data/app</font><br>
<font color="#FF0000">rm -rf /data/data  (optional)</font><br>
<font color="#FF0000">ln -s /system/sd/data /data/data  (optional)</font><br>
<font color="#FF0000">rm -rf /data/dalvik-cache  (optional)</font><br>
<font color="#FF0000">ln -s /system/sd/dalvik-cache /data/dalvik-cache  (optional)</font><br>
<font color="#FF0000">reboot</font><br>

Again the 4-7 cmds are optional & for the cache only of an app, so if you moved the cache over in the above cmds then on this section you will run them as well.  

*You must run the optional cmds in both sections for them to work, or run them in neither!*

During the reboot process your phone might take a while at the android screen since it has to populate the apps tray. If it lasts >5-10 minutes then something likely went wrong. Make sure you did all the steps correctly & if you did try the steps in the recovery terminal section of this tutorial again. If it still doesn't work, post here & we'll try to get it sorted out. That aside, enjoy having your apps on SD card!

_Also I wouldn't suggest you moving the /data/app-private._

*To Continue on please go to <a href="http://code.google.com/p/android-roms/wiki/Unroot">Unroot your Phone / Place Phone Back to Stock</a>*