#summary How To: Install the Latest Custom ROM
#labels Featured

*<font color="#FF0000">=================================================================================</font><br>
  <font color="#FF0000">DISCLAIMER: I AM NOT RESPONSIBLE IF YOU BRICK / RUIN YOUR PHONE IN ANY WAY.</font>    <br>
  <font color="#FF0000">BASIC COMPUTER SKILLS REQUIRED</font>                                                 <br>
  <font color="#FF0000">IF YOU DO NOT KNOW WHAT ROOT IS ... YOU PROBABLY DON'T NEED IT</font>                 <br>
<font color="#FF0000">=================================================================================</font>*<br>


*PROCEED WITH CAUTION*

= Installing the Latest Custom ROM =

Next we will install the latest JF Version.

1 Download the build.<br>
2 Rename it to "_update.zip_".<br>
3 Copy it to the root of your phone's SD card.<br>
4 Turn your phone off.<br>
5 Start up in recovery mode by holding Home and pressing Power.<br>
6 Press alt-W to wipe your device. (You need to do this, or the device may hang at the flashing Android screen)<br>
7 Press alt-S to apply the update.<br>

*_Latest Build Table_*

|| *Build* || *Notes* || *Link* ||
|| JF's RC33 v1.42 || USA T-Mobile Release Candidate, Root, Multi-Touch & Busybox || http://android-roms.googlecode.com/files/JFv1.42_RC33.zip ||
|| JF's ADP 1.1 v1.43 (Holiday) || Android Dev Phone 1 Holiday Release, Root, Multi-Touch & Busybox || http://jf.odiness.com/v1.43/JFv1.43_Holiday.zip ||
|| JF's RC9 v1.43 || UK Release Candidate, Root, Multi-Touch & Busybox || http://jf.odiness.com/v1.43/JFv1.43_RC9.zip ||
|| haykuro's v5.0.2 Google (Cupcake) || Root, Busybox, Fancy Animations || http://android-roms.googlecode.com/files/haykuro_502G.zip ||
|| haykuro's v5.0.2 Google (Cupcake) A2SD || Root, Busybox, Fancy Animations, Apps 2 SD || http://sharebee.com/b421bf8f ||
|| haykuro's v5.0.2 `r`5 HTC (Cupcake) || Busybox, Prettiest Build, HTC VK || http://android-roms.googlecode.com/files/haykuro_502Hr5.zip ||
|| haykuro's v5.0.2 `r`5 HTC (Cupcake) A2SD || Busybox, Prettiest Build, HTC VK, Apps 2 SD ||http://sharebee.com/43ba3492 || 
|| haykuro's ADP 1.5 `r`3 (Cupcake) || Root, Busybox, Multi-Touch || http://android-roms.googlecode.com/files/Hv1.5r3-signed.zip ||
|| haykuro's ADP 1.5 `r`3 (Cupcake) A2SD || Root, Busybox, Multi-Touch, Apps 2 SD || http://www.droiddeveloper.com/hrbuilds/Hv1.5r3-a2sd-signed.zip ||
|| `TheDudes `v0.92 (Cupcake) || Root, Busybox, AOSP + ADP1.5 || http://android-roms.googlecode.com/files/TheDudesCupcake0.92.reg.nowipe-signed.zip ||
|| `TheDudes `v0.92 (Cupcake) A2SD || Root, Busybox, AOSP + ADP1.5, Apps 2 SD || http://thedudescupcake.googlecode.com/files/TheDudesCupcake0.92.apps2sd.nowipe-signed.zip ||

All builds are fully funcational, some applications from the market may crash on you if they are not compatible with the 1.5 firmware.

*- WHEN SWITHCING BETWEEN DIFFERENT BRANCHES (I.E. SWITHCING FROM HAYKURO'S 502G BUILD TO HAYKURO'S 502H `r`5 BUILD) YOU WILL NEED TO WIPE (ALT+W FROM THE RECOVERY MENU) THE PHONE PRIOR TO APPLYING THE UPDATE. -*

*- IF YOU ARE JUST UPDATING THE SAME BUILD (I.E. UPGRADING FROM The Dudes v0.90 TO The Dudes v0.92) YOU DO NOT NEED TO DO A WIPE PRIOR TO APPLYING THE UPDATE. -*

_For the most part all of these builds are very similar, the HTC Branch has a different virtual keyboard and also is a bit prettier some would say._<br>
_The other Google / ADP builds are almost identical with the exception to the haykuro's Google Branch that has a different animation when u rotate the phone._<br> 

*The initial boot after this change may take a bit longer this is ok allow it some additional time to boot and load the new build.*<br>

*To Continue on please go to <a href="http://code.google.com/p/android-roms/wiki/Radio_Update">Radio Update</a>*