#summary How To: Install the Hard SPL
#labels Featured

*<font color="#FF0000">=================================================================================</font><br>
  <font color="#FF0000">DISCLAIMER: I AM NOT RESPONSIBLE IF YOU BRICK / RUIN YOUR PHONE IN ANY WAY.</font>    <br>
  <font color="#FF0000">BASIC COMPUTER SKILLS REQUIRED</font>                                                 <br>
  <font color="#FF0000">IF YOU DO NOT KNOW WHAT ROOT IS ... YOU PROBABLY DON'T NEED IT</font>                 <br>
<font color="#FF0000">=================================================================================</font>*<br>


*PROCEED WITH CAUTION*

= Installation of the Hard SPL =

This will allow you to apply flash images from other regions (like UK on US phones, and vice versa), create full backups of your phone, install the latest build from the Android source, and usually resurrect your phone if it is "_bricked_".

Location of the Hard SPL: http://android-roms.googlecode.com/files/splhard1_update_signed.zip

1 Power off your phone.<br>
2 Press and hold Home and then press Power to boot up into recovery mode.<br>
3 You will now enter recovery mode. You should see an exclamation.<br>
4 If you do not see a menu / text on screen, press *ALT+L* to show the menu.<br>
5 Press *ALT+S* to apply the update from the SD card.<br>
6 After the update is complete, hold *Home + Back* to restart.<br>

*_- You've now applied the Hard SPL to your phone -_*   

Next we will install the latest Custom ROM.

*To Continue on please go to <a href="http://code.google.com/p/android-roms/wiki/Install_Custom_ROM">Installing the Latest Custom ROM</a>*